# How to send your homework?

1. Create solutions for your tasks.
2. Put each solution function in a separate python file named `<homework_number>_<task_number>.py`. For example solution for the task **3.1.** should be placed in a file `3_1.py`.

   > Note 1. **Your solution function should be named as task requires!**

   > Note 2. **Each file should contain only solution function.**

3. Put all of your solutions in the folder named with your index number. For example, if your University index number is 333444, folder should be named `333444`.
4. Compress your files using zip extension (without password protection). Finally your file should be `333444.zip`.
5. Send solutions to **python.at.ncu@gmail.com**

For example if your index is 333444 and you are sending solutions for the first homework your files should have structure (after unzipping `333444.zip`):

```
333444
├── 1_1.py
└── 1_2.py
```

# Homework 1.

**1.1.** Write a function `higher(a, b, c)` that calculates sum and product of three numbers and return higher value as an output. Function should accept as an input three real numbers `a`, `b`, `c` represented as floats and returns higer of the two: `a + b + c` or `a * b * c`.

Examples:

```python
higher(1, 2, 3) # should return 6
higher(0, 1, 1) # should return 2
higher(2, 3, 4) # should return 24
```

**1.2.** Write a function `quadratic_solutions(a, b, c)` that takes as an input three coefficients of quadratic equation `f(x)=ax^2+bx+c` and return number of solutions. Three return values should be possible: 0, 1, and 2.

Examples:

```python
quadratic_solutions(2, 1, 1) # should return 0
quadratic_solutions(1, 2, 1) # should return 1
quadratic_solutions(1, 5, 1) # should return 2
```

# Homework 2.

**2.1.** Write a function `full_price(price, tax)` that calculates full price of a product including tax. New full price should be calculated as `p + tax * p`. Products cheaper than `100` should not be taxed so for them full price is equal to initial price. Assume default tax value as 10 percent. Tax will be a number between 0 (0%) and 1 (100%).

Examples:

```python
full_price(50, tax=0.5) # should return 50 because products under 100 are not taxed
full_price(200, tax=0.5) # should return 300
full_price(200) # should return 220 because default tax is 10%
```

**2.2.** Write a function `max_weight(heigth_in_cm)` that return maximum normal BMI weight for a person `height_in_cm` tall. Assume maximum normal BMI is 25. Function should raise `ValueError` if `height_in_cm` is not positive number.

Examples:

```python
max_weight(180) # should return 81.0
max_weight(150) # should return 56.25
max_weight(-50) # should raise ValueError
```

# Homework 3.

**3.1.** Write a function `arithmetic(a_1, d, n)` which calculates sum of `n` first terms of arithmetic progression a_n=a_1+(n-1)d. For example arithmetic progression with `a_1=5` and `d=2` will be an infinite sequence (5, 7, 9, 11, 13, ...). Sum of `n=4` first elements of that sequence is 5+7+9+11=32, therefore `arithmetic(5, 2, 4)` should return number `32`. Assume that `d` is always positive, and `n` is a positive integer greater than 0.

Examples:

```python
arithmetic(5, 2, 4) # should return 32 (because 5 + 7 + 9 + 11 = 32)
arithmetic(0, 1, 10) # should return 45 (because 0 + 1 + 2 + ... + 9 = 45)
arithmetic(100, 10, 2) # should return 210 (because 100 + 110 = 210)
```

**3.2.** Write a function `custom_sum(n, odd)` that calculates sum of integers less or equal to `n` that are **even or odd**. `odd` argument is a boolean determining if sum of odd or even numbers should be calculated. Assume that `n` is a positive integer greater than 0 and `odd` is either `True` or `False`. `odd` argument should have default value `False`.

Examples:

```python
custom_sum(5, odd=True) # should return 9 (because 1 + 3 + 5 = 9)
custom_sum(9, odd=False) # should return 20 (because 2 + 4 + 6 + 8 = 20)
custom_sum(5) # should return 6 (because 2 + 4 = 6 and odd is False by default)
```

# Homework 4

**4.1.** Write a function `color_pyramid(base)` that guesses what color block is on top of the colorful pyramid with defined base. Pyramid is created from a row of colours, each of which is red, green or blue (represented as letters `"R"`, `"G"`, `"B"`). Successive rows, each containing one fewer colour than the last, are generated by considering the two touching colours in the previous row. If these colours are identical, the same colour is used in the new row. If they are different, the missing colour is used in the new row. This is continued until the final row, with only a single colour, is generated. Example:

```
       G
      R B
     B G R
    R G G B
   G B R B B
  R B B G R G
 B G R G G B R
R G G B R B B G
```

Your function will take the string input representing the base of the pyramid (e.g. `"RGGBRBBG"` in this example) and should output single letter (`"R"`, `"G"` or `"B"`) corresponding to the color of top brick

Examples:

```python
color_pyramid("RR") # should return "R"
color_pyramid("RG") # should return "B"
color_pyramid("RGB") # should return "G"
color_pyramid("RGGBRBBG") # should return "G"
```

# Homework 5

**5.1.** Write a function `christmas_tree(height)` that **returns a string** that printed to the console looks like a christmas tree with certain height (height is a number of tree layes without root). Each layer of tree should have the same amount of characters. Only one string should be returned. To go to the next line use newline character `\n`. Last character of the returned string should be a newline character.

**NOTE** Your function should return string, and not print christmas tree.

Examples of christmas trees of height 1, 3, and 5:
```
#
| 
```
```
  #  
 ### 
#####
  |  
```
```
    #    
   ###   
  #####  
 ####### 
#########
    |    
```

Denoting spaces as `s` and newline characters as `n` your tree should look like this:
```
ssss#ssssn    
sss###sssn  
ss#####ssn
s#######sn
#########n
ssss|ssssn   
```

Examples:
```python
christmas_tree(1) # should return string "#\n|\n"
christmas_tree(3) # should return string "  #  \n ### \n#####\n  |  \n"
christmas_tree(5) # should return string "    #    \n   ###   \n  #####  \n ####### \n#########\n    |    \n"
```

# Homework 6

**6.1.** Write a function `avg_summer_temp(temps)` that accept a list containing strings with the information about monthly temperatures and return average temperature during summer months (june, july and august). Each entry in the `temps` list will be a string consisting of:
- first three letters of a month, 
- colon, 
- temperature for a given month.

For example `"jan:-1.8"` would represent temperature of -1.8 degrees in January, `"apr:8.7"` would represent temperature of 8.7 degrees in April, and so on. 

Test example:
```python
temps = [
    "jan:-1.8",
    "feb:-0.6",
    "mar:2.8",
    "apr:8.7",
    "may:14.2",
    "jun:17.0",
    "jul:19.2",
    "aug:18.3",
    "sep:13.5",
    "oct:8.5",
    "nov:3.3",
    "dec:-0.7",
]

avg_summer_temp(temps) # should return 18.166666666666668, because this is the average of 17.0, 19.2 and 18.3
```
# Homework 7

**7.1.** Imagine you are a scientist and you want to play with electron distribution among atom's shells. The basic idea of electron distribution is that electrons should fill a shell untill it's holding the maximum number of electrons. The maximum number of electrons in a shell is given as `2n^2` where `n` is the number of the shell. So the first shell can hold 2 electrons, second shell can hold 8 electrons, third can hold 18 electrons, and so on. Electrons should always ill the shell with the lowest number first. If the electrons have completely filled the lowest level shell, the other unoccupied electrons will fill the higher level shell and so on. Your job is to write a function `electron_configuration(n)` which accepts number of electrons and return electron configuration - list representing number of electrons in each shell.

Examples:
```python
electron_configuration(1)  # should return [1]
electron_configuration(3)  # should return [2, 1]
electron_configuration(10) # should return [2, 8]
electron_configuration(11) # should return [2, 8, 1]
electron_configuration(47) # should return [2, 8, 18, 19]
```
    

